1.Assume a standing position while holding the bar using a double overhand grip.
2.Hinge forward until your torso is roughly parallel with the floor (or slightly above) and then begin the movement by driving the elbows behind the body while retracting the shoulder blades.
3.Pull the bar towards your belly button until it touches your body and then slowly lower the bar back to the starting position under control.
|
1.Set the appropriate weight on the weight stack and attach a close-grip bar or V-bar to the seated row machine.
2.Grasp the bar with a neutral grip (palms facing in).
3.Keeping your legs slightly bent and your back straight, pull the weight up slightly off the stack. You should be sitting straight upright with your shoulders back. This is the starting position.
4.Keeping your body in position, pull the handle into your stomach.
5.Pull your shoulder blades back, squeeze, pause, and then slowly lower the weight back to the starting position.
|
1.Attach a wide grip handle to the lat pulldown machine and assume a seated position.
2.Grasp the handle with a pronated grip (double overhand) and initiate the movement by depressing the shoulder blade and then flexing the elbow while extending the shoulder.
3.Pull the handle towards your body until the elbows are in line with your torso and then slowly lower the handle back to the starting position under control.
4.Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.
|
1.Grab the hand attachments in an overhand grip about shoulder-width apart, with elbows locked and arms straight. Keep your knees soft rather than locked.
2.Breathe out while pulling the cable down to your thighs in a smooth, controlled motion, arms remaining straight, hips bending slightly forward while keeping the back straight. If you do this exercise correctly, you will find that your abdominal muscle will work hard, and your arms and back will also get some work.
3.Pause when the hand grips are at thigh level.
4.Inhale while allowing the weights to return to full arm extension above your head.3 End in a position where there is still tension on the cable before the next repetition.
|
1.Assume a kneeling position on the bench with your ipsilateral (i.e. same side) hand braced against the bench.
2.Hold a dumbbell in the opposite hand with a neutral grip.
3.Begin the movement by driving the elbow behind the body while retracting the shoulder blade.
4.Pull the dumbbell towards your body until the elbow is at (or just past) the midline and then slowly lower the dumbbells back to the starting position under control.
5.Repeat for the desired number of repetitions on both sides.
|
1Position yourself on the back extension machine with your hips on top of the cushioned pads and your feet secured under the leg anchor.
2.Place your arms behind your head, or hold onto a kettlebell (10 pounds is a good starting point) with your arms fully extended.
3.Lift your torso up a few inches and squeeze your gluteal muscles for two seconds. Then, lower your torso back down to the starting position. Be sure not to overextend your back.
4.This counts as one rep. Complete three sets of 10 reps.
5.If you're a beginner, perform this exercise without weight or start with a light weight. As you feel comfortable, begin to add or increase the weight.
