1.Load the machine with the desired weight and take a seat.
2.Sit down and position your feet on the sled with a shoulder width stance.
3.Take a deep breath, extend your legs, and unlock the safeties.
4.Lower the weight under control until the legs are roughly 45 degrees or slightly below.
5.Drive the weight back to the starting position by extending the knees but don’t forcefully lockout.
6.Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.
|
1.Select the desired resistance on the weight stack and insert the pin.
2.Adjust the seat so that the knees are directly in line with the axis of the machine.
3.Sit down and position your shins behind the pad at the base of the machine.
4.Take a deep breath and extend your legs as you flex your quadriceps.
5.As you lock out the knees, exhale to complete the repetition.
6.Slowly lower your feet back to the starting position and repeat for the desired number of repetitions.
|
1.The lying leg curl is a great exercise to isolate the hamstrings. Set up for the leg curl by selecting the weight you want to use on the stack and adjusting the padding to suit your leg length.
2.Lay face down on the machine. The padding should be positioned just above the back of your ankles. If it's higher than that, adjust the length.
3.Tense up the hamstrings by taking the weight slightly off the stack. This is the starting position for the exercise.
4.Squeeze the hamstrings and curl the weight up as far as possible.
5.Squeeze the hamstring hard, and then slowly lower the weight back to the starting position.
|
1.Set up for the exercise by setting the barbell to just below shoulder height and loading the weight you want to use.
2.Stand under the bar with your feet at about shoulder width apart.
3.Position the bar so that it is resting on the muscles on the top of your back, not on the back of your neck. The bar should feel comfortable. If it doesn't, try adding some padding to the bar.
4.Now take your hands over the back and grip the bar with a wide grip for stability.
5.You should now bend at the knees and straighten your back in preparation to take the weight off the rack.
6.Keeping your back straight and eyes up, push up through the legs and take the weight off the rack.
7.Take a small step back and stabilize yourself.
8.Keeping your eyes facing forward slowly lower your body down. Don't lean forward as you come down. Your buttocks should come out and drop straight down.
9.Squat down until your thighs are parallel with the floor, and then slowly raise your body back up by pushing through your heels.
10.Do not lock the knees out when you stand up, and then repeat the movement.
|
1.Set up for the dumbbell stiff leg deadlift by choosing a pair of dumbbells and holding them down at your sides.
2.Stand up straight with a slight bend in your knees and your feet around shoulder width apart. This is your starting position.
3.Keep your back as straight as possible and bend over at the waist lowering the dumbbells over the tops of you feet. Your knees should be kept stationary during the movement.
4.Focus on the stretch in your hamstrings, and continue to lower the dumbbells down as far as your hamstrings will let you comfortably.
5.Now engage the hamstrings and begin to raise the dumbbells straight back up. Your eyes should be facing up and your shoulders back. This will prevent your lower back from rounding.
6.Squeeze up through the glutes and hamstrings until you're standing straight up.
|
1.Select a dumbbell and position it at chest height with one hand under each edge of the dumbbell.
2.Take a deep breath and descend by simultaneously pushing the hips back and bending the knees.
3.Once your thighs reach parallel with the floor, begin to reverse the movement.
4.Keep your abs braced and drive your feet through the floor.
5.Drive back to the starting position and repeat for the desired number of repetitions.
|
1.Stand upright holding two dumbbells by your sides. 
2.Place the balls of your feet on an exercise step or weight plate with your heels touching the floor. 
3.With your toes pointing forwards, raise your heels off the floor and contract your calves. 
4.Slowly return to the starting position.
|
1.Set the bar on the smith machine to around shoulder height and rack up the weight you want to use.
2.Grab a step, calf block, or weight plate and put it below the bar.
3.Step up on the block and position the balls of your feet on the edge.
4.Grasp the smith bar with a wide grip and position it across the top of your back muscles (not across the back of your neck).
5.Push up to take the weight off the rack and slowly let your heels drop down as far as possible. This is the starting position.
6.Slowly raise your heels as far as you can off the floor.
7.Squeeze the calf muscles, and then slowly lower your heels back to the starting position.
8.Repeat for desired reps.