1.Assume a standing position with the dumbbells on both sides of your body.
2.Hinge forward, inhale, and grab the dumbbells with a neutral grip.
3.Stand up tall and ensure your spine remains neutral.
4.Contract the traps to elevate the shoulders. Squeeze hard at the top and slowly lower the dumbbells back to the starting position.
5.Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.
|
1.Assume a split stance with the arms straight out in front of you utilizing a pronated grip.
2.Inhale and pull the rope towards your face with the elbows high.
3.Slowly lower the rope back to the starting position and repeat for the desired number of repetitions on both sides.
|
1.The dumbbell lateral raise is a good exercise for building width in your upper body which gives you the "V" shape. Grab a set of dumbbells and stand straight up with the dumbbells at your sides.
2.Your palms should be facing your body. You should be holding the dumbbells slightly off your body, as this keeps the tension on the side delts. This is your starting position for the exercise.
3.To execute, slowly raise the dumbbells up to around shoulder height. It's important that you do not let your wrists go above your elbows while raising the weight, as this will take the work off the side delts and put it on the front delts.
4.Pause at the top of the movement, and then slowly lower the weight back to the starting position.
5.Do not let the dumbbells touch your body, and then raise them for the next rep.
|
1.Set up an adjustable angle bench to 90 degrees and select the desired weight from the rack.
2.Pick up the dumbbells from the floor using a neutral grip (palms facing in). Position the end of the dumbbells on your knees and sit down on the bench.
3.Using a safe and controlled motion, kick your knees up one at a time in order to get each dumbbell into place.
4.Once the dumbbells are in place, rotate your palms so they are facing forward.
5.Take a deep breath then press the dumbbells overhead by extending the elbows and contracting the deltoids.
6.Slowly lower the dumbbells back to the starting position (the arms should be roughly 90 degrees or slightly lower depending upon limb lengths).
7.Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.