1.The alternate hammer curl is a great exercise for the biceps and the forearms. Set up by grasping a set of dumbbells and standing straight up with the dumbbells by your sides.
2.You should be using a neutral grip, meaning your palms are facing your body.
3.Bend your arms slightly to keep the tension on the biceps.
4.Keeping your body fixed and elbows in at your sides, slowly curl up the dumbbell of your weakest arm (for most people this is their left arm).
5.Squeeze the bicep at the top of the movement, and then slowly lower the weight back to the starting position.
6.Repeat the same movement for the other arm. This is one rep. 
|
1.Select the desired weight from the rack, and sit in an upright position on a flat bench.
2.Hinge forward and position your elbow near the base of your knee. Place your free hand on the other knee to stabilize yourself.
3.Using a supinated (palms facing up) grip, take a deep breath and curl the dumbbell towards your shoulder.
4.Once the bicep is fully shortened, slowly lower the weight back to the starting position.
5.Repeat for the desired number of repetitions on both sides.
|
1.The standing barbell curl is the cornerstone of many bicep building routines. Grasp a barbell or Olympic bar at around shoulder width apart using an underhand grip (palms facing up).
2.Stand straight up, feet together (you may be more comfortable putting one foot back for stability), back straight, and with your arms fully extended.
3.The bar should not be touching your body.
4.Keeping your eyes facing forwards, elbows tucked in at your sides, and your body completely still, slowly curl the bar up.
5.Squeeze your biceps hard at the top of the movement, and then slowly lower it back to the starting position.
6.Repeat for desired reps.
|
1.Set up for the EZ bar reverse wrist curl by selecting a light EZ bar and grasping it with a reverse grip (palms facing down) at around shoulder width apart.
2.Stand straight up, feet together (you may be more comfortable taking one foot back for stability), back straight, and with your arms fully extended. The bar should not be touching your body.
3.Keeping your eyes facing forwards, elbows tucked in at your sides, and your body completely still, slowly curl the bar up.
4.Do not pause, and slowly lower the weight back to the starting position.
5.Repeat for desired reps.
|
1.Position an incline bench at roughly 55-65 degrees, select the desired weight from the rack, and sit upright with your back flat against the pad.
2.Using a supinated (palms up) grip, take a deep breath and curl both dumbbells towards your shoulders.
3.Once the biceps are fully shortened, slowly lower the weights back to the starting position.
4.Repeat for the desired number of repetitions.
|
1.Set up for the cable curl by attaching a straight bar to the low pulley cable and selecting the weight you want to use on the stack.
2.Stand facing the cable machine with your legs shoulder width apart.
3.Grasp the bar with an underhand grip (palms facing up), and your hands about shoulder width apart.
4.Keeping your elbows tucked in by your sides, slowly curl the bar up as far as possible.
5.Squeeze the biceps at the top of the movement, and then slowly lower it back to starting position.
6.Do not pause, but go straight into the next rep!
|
1.Keeping your upper arm horizontal, exhale as you flex your elbow and curl the stirrup toward your 2.shoulder.
3.Hold for a count of two and squeeze your biceps brachii.
4.Inhale as you extend your elbow and return the stirrup to the starting position.
5.Repeat for the prescribed number of repetitions.
6.Repeat the exercise with your opposite arm.